docs/UserGuide.md, before:



# ClientNest User Guide

ClientNest is a **desktop app for managing contacts, optimized for use via a  Line Interface** (CLI) while still having the benefits of a Graphical User Interface (GUI). If you can type fast, AB3 can get your contact management tasks done faster than traditional GUI apps.

<!-- * Table of Contents -->
<page-nav-print />

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Quick start

1. Ensure you have Java `17` or above installed in your Computer.<br>
   **Mac users:** Ensure you have the precise JDK version prescribed [here](https://se-education.org/guides/tutorials/javaInstallationMac.html).

2. Download the latest `.jar` file from [here](https://github.com/AY2425S2-CS2103-F10-2/tp/releases).

3. Copy the file to the folder you want to use as the _home folder_ for your AddressBook.

4. Open a command terminal, `cd` into the folder you put the jar file in, and use the `java -jar ClientNest.jar` command to run the application.<br>
   A GUI similar to the below should appear in a few seconds. Note how the app contains some sample data.<br>
   ![Ui](images/Ui.png)

5. Start typing commands in the input box and press Enter to execute them.

6. Refer to the [Features](#features) below for details of each command.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Features

<box type="info" seamless>

**Notes about the command format:**<br>

* Words in `UPPER_CASE` are the parameters to be supplied by the user.<br>
  e.g. in `add n/NAME`, `NAME` is a parameter which can be used as `add n/John Doe`.

* Items in square brackets are optional.<br>
  e.g `n/NAME [t/TAG]` can be used as `n/John Doe t/friend` or as `n/John Doe`.

* Items with `…`​ after them can be used multiple times including zero times.<br>
  e.g. `[t/TAG]…​` can be used as ` ` (i.e. 0 times), `t/friend`, `t/friend t/family` etc.

* Parameters can be in any order.<br>
  e.g. if the command specifies `n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER`, `p/PHONE_NUMBER n/NAME` is also acceptable.

* Extraneous parameters for commands that do not take in parameters (such as `help`, `list`, `exit` and `clear`) will be ignored.<br>
  e.g. if the command specifies `help 123`, it will be interpreted as `help`.

* If you are using a PDF version of this document, be careful when copying and pasting commands that span multiple lines as space characters surrounding line-breaks may be omitted when copied over to the application.
  </box>

### Viewing help : `help`

Shows a message explaning how to access the help page.

![help message](images/helpMessage.png)

Format: `help`


### Adding a person: `add`

Adds a new contact to your ClientNest.

Format: `add n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER e/EMAIL a/ADDRESS b/BIRTHDAY pr/PREMIUM_NAME PREMIUM_AMOUNT [t/TAG]…​`

<box type="tip" seamless>

**Tip:** A person can have any number of tags (including 0)
</box>

Examples:
* `add n/John Doe p/98765432 e/johnd@example.com a/John street, block 123, #01-01 b/2002-11-24 pr/Gold 99999 t/friends t/owesMoney`
* `add n/Alice Pauline p/94351253 e/alice@example.com a/123, Jurong West Ave 6, #08-111 b/1990-01-01 pr/Silver 50000`

### Listing all persons : `list`

Displays all contacts stored in ClientNest..

Format: `list`

### Editing a person : `edit`

Edits details of an existing contact.

Format: `edit INDEX [n/NAME] [p/PHONE] [e/EMAIL] [a/ADDRESS] [b/BIRTHDAY] [pr/PREMIUM_NAME PREMIUM_AMOUNT] [t/TAG]…​`

* Edits the person at the specified `INDEX`. The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list. The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​
* At least one of the optional fields must be provided.
* Existing values will be updated to the input values.
* When editing tags, the existing tags of the person will be removed i.e adding of tags is not cumulative.
* You can remove all the person’s tags by typing `t/` without
  specifying any tags after it.

Examples:
*  `edit 1 p/91234567 e/johndoe@example.com` Edits the phone number and email address of the 1st person to be `91234567` and `johndoe@example.com` respectively.
*  `edit 2 n/Betsy Crower t/` Edits the name of the 2nd person to be `Betsy Crower` and clears all existing tags.

### Locating persons by name: `find`

Finds persons whose names contain any of the given keywords.

Format: `find KEYWORD [MORE_KEYWORDS]`

* The search is case-insensitive. e.g `hans` will match `Hans`
* The order of the keywords does not matter. e.g. `Hans Bo` will match `Bo Hans`
* Only the name is searched.
* Only full words will be matched e.g. `Han` will not match `Hans`
* Persons matching at least one keyword will be returned (i.e. `OR` search).
  e.g. `Hans Bo` will return `Hans Gruber`, `Bo Yang`

Examples:
* `find John` returns `john` and `John Doe`
* `find Alice Hoe` returns `John Doe`, `Alice Pauline`<br>
  ![result for 'find alice doe'](images/findAliceDoeResult.png)

### Deleting a person : `delete`

Deletes the specified person from the client list.

Format: `delete INDEX`

* Deletes the person at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​

Examples:
* `list` followed by `delete 2` deletes the 2nd person in the address book.
* `find Betsy` followed by `delete 1` deletes the 1st person in the results of the `find` command.

### Clearing all entries : `clear`

Clears all entries from you ClientNest.

Format: `clear`

### Exiting the program : `exit`

Exits the program.

Format: `exit`

### Saving the data

ClientNest data are saved in the hard disk automatically after any command that changes the data. There is no need to save manually.

### Editing the data file

ClientNest data are saved automatically as a JSON file `[JAR file location]/data/addressbook.json`. Advanced users are welcome to update data directly by editing that data file.

<box type="warning" seamless>

**Caution:**
If your changes to the data file makes its format invalid, ClientNest will discard all data and start with an empty data file at the next run.  Hence, it is recommended to take a backup of the file before editing it.<br>
Furthermore, certain edits can cause the ClientNest to behave in unexpected ways (e.g., if a value entered is outside the acceptable range). Therefore, edit the data file only if you are confident that you can update it correctly.
</box>

### Upcoming Birthdays View `[coming in v2.0]`

_Details coming soon ..._

### Editing User Profile : `profile`

Edits details of the current user's profile.

Format: `profile [n/NAME] [p/PHONE] [e/EMAIL]`

* Edits the current user's profile.
* At least one of the optional fields must be provided.
* Existing values will be updated to the input values.
* Edited values will be updated on the Hero Section of the main window.

Examples:
*  `edit n/John Doe p/91234567 e/johndoe@example.com` Edits the name, phone number and email address of the user to be `John Doe`, `91234567` and `johndoe@example.com` respectively.

### Saving the data

ClientNest user profile data is saved in the hard disk automatically after any command that changes the data. There is no need to save manually.

### Editing the data file

ClientNest user profile data are saved automatically as a JSON file `[JAR file location]/data/userprofile.json`. Advanced users are welcome to update data directly by editing that data file.

<box type="warning" seamless>

**Caution:**
If your changes to the data file makes its format invalid, ClientNest will discard all data and start with the default values for a user profile. Hence, it is recommended to take a backup of the file before editing it.<br><br>
The default values of a user profile is:<br>
Name: `Guest`<br>
Phone: `00000000`<br>
Email: `guest@example.com`<br>
<br>
Furthermore, certain edits can cause the ClientNest to behave in unexpected ways (e.g., if a value entered is outside the acceptable range). Therefore, edit the data file only if you are confident that you can update it correctly.
</box>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## FAQ

**Q**: How do I transfer my data to another Computer?<br>
**A**: Install the app in the other computer and overwrite the empty data file it creates with the file that contains the data of your previous ClientNest home folder.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Known issues

1. **When using multiple screens**, if you move the application to a secondary screen, and later switch to using only the primary screen, the GUI will open off-screen. The remedy is to delete the `preferences.json` file created by the application before running the application again.
2. **If you minimize the Help Window** and then run the `help` command (or use the `Help` menu, or the keyboard shortcut `F1`) again, the original Help Window will remain minimized, and no new Help Window will appear. The remedy is to manually restore the minimized Help Window.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Command summary

Action     | Format, Examples
-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**Add**    | `add n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER e/EMAIL a/ADDRESS b/BIRTHDAY pr/PREMIUM_NAME PREMIUM_AMOUNT [t/TAG]…​` <br> e.g., `add n/James Ho p/22224444 e/jamesho@example.com a/123, Clementi Rd, 1234665 b/1995-05-10 pr/Platinum 150000 t/friend t/colleague`
**Clear**  | `clear`
**Delete** | `delete INDEX`<br> e.g., `delete 3`
**Edit**   | `edit INDEX [n/NAME] [p/PHONE_NUMBER] [e/EMAIL] [a/ADDRESS] [b/BIRTHDAY] [pr/PREMIUM_NAME PREMIUM_AMOUNT] [t/TAG]…​`<br> e.g.,`edit 2 n/James Lee e/jameslee@example.com`
**Find**   | `find KEYWORD [MORE_KEYWORDS]`<br> e.g., `find James Jake`
**List**   | `list`
**Help**   | `help`

Commit message:

Add Known Issue for long input string in UG

docs/UserGuide.md, after:



# ClientNest User Guide

ClientNest is a **desktop app for managing contacts, optimized for use via a  Line Interface** (CLI) while still having the benefits of a Graphical User Interface (GUI). If you can type fast, AB3 can get your contact management tasks done faster than traditional GUI apps.

<!-- * Table of Contents -->
<page-nav-print />

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Quick start

1. Ensure you have Java `17` or above installed in your Computer.<br>
   **Mac users:** Ensure you have the precise JDK version prescribed [here](https://se-education.org/guides/tutorials/javaInstallationMac.html).

2. Download the latest `.jar` file from [here](https://github.com/AY2425S2-CS2103-F10-2/tp/releases).

3. Copy the file to the folder you want to use as the _home folder_ for your AddressBook.

4. Open a command terminal, `cd` into the folder you put the jar file in, and use the `java -jar ClientNest.jar` command to run the application.<br>
   A GUI similar to the below should appear in a few seconds. Note how the app contains some sample data.<br>
   ![Ui](images/Ui.png)

5. Start typing commands in the input box and press Enter to execute them.

6. Refer to the [Features](#features) below for details of each command.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Features

<box type="info" seamless>

**Notes about the command format:**<br>

* Words in `UPPER_CASE` are the parameters to be supplied by the user.<br>
  e.g. in `add n/NAME`, `NAME` is a parameter which can be used as `add n/John Doe`.

* Items in square brackets are optional.<br>
  e.g `n/NAME [t/TAG]` can be used as `n/John Doe t/friend` or as `n/John Doe`.

* Items with `…`​ after them can be used multiple times including zero times.<br>
  e.g. `[t/TAG]…​` can be used as ` ` (i.e. 0 times), `t/friend`, `t/friend t/family` etc.

* Parameters can be in any order.<br>
  e.g. if the command specifies `n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER`, `p/PHONE_NUMBER n/NAME` is also acceptable.

* Extraneous parameters for commands that do not take in parameters (such as `help`, `list`, `exit` and `clear`) will be ignored.<br>
  e.g. if the command specifies `help 123`, it will be interpreted as `help`.

* If you are using a PDF version of this document, be careful when copying and pasting commands that span multiple lines as space characters surrounding line-breaks may be omitted when copied over to the application.
  </box>

### Viewing help : `help`

Shows a message explaning how to access the help page.

![help message](images/helpMessage.png)

Format: `help`


### Adding a person: `add`

Adds a new contact to your ClientNest.

Format: `add n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER e/EMAIL a/ADDRESS b/BIRTHDAY pr/PREMIUM_NAME PREMIUM_AMOUNT [t/TAG]…​`

<box type="tip" seamless>

**Tip:** A person can have any number of tags (including 0)
</box>

Examples:
* `add n/John Doe p/98765432 e/johnd@example.com a/John street, block 123, #01-01 b/2002-11-24 pr/Gold 99999 t/friends t/owesMoney`
* `add n/Alice Pauline p/94351253 e/alice@example.com a/123, Jurong West Ave 6, #08-111 b/1990-01-01 pr/Silver 50000`

### Listing all persons : `list`

Displays all contacts stored in ClientNest..

Format: `list`

### Editing a person : `edit`

Edits details of an existing contact.

Format: `edit INDEX [n/NAME] [p/PHONE] [e/EMAIL] [a/ADDRESS] [b/BIRTHDAY] [pr/PREMIUM_NAME PREMIUM_AMOUNT] [t/TAG]…​`

* Edits the person at the specified `INDEX`. The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list. The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​
* At least one of the optional fields must be provided.
* Existing values will be updated to the input values.
* When editing tags, the existing tags of the person will be removed i.e adding of tags is not cumulative.
* You can remove all the person’s tags by typing `t/` without
  specifying any tags after it.

Examples:
*  `edit 1 p/91234567 e/johndoe@example.com` Edits the phone number and email address of the 1st person to be `91234567` and `johndoe@example.com` respectively.
*  `edit 2 n/Betsy Crower t/` Edits the name of the 2nd person to be `Betsy Crower` and clears all existing tags.

### Locating persons by name: `find`

Finds persons whose names contain any of the given keywords.

Format: `find KEYWORD [MORE_KEYWORDS]`

* The search is case-insensitive. e.g `hans` will match `Hans`
* The order of the keywords does not matter. e.g. `Hans Bo` will match `Bo Hans`
* Only the name is searched.
* Only full words will be matched e.g. `Han` will not match `Hans`
* Persons matching at least one keyword will be returned (i.e. `OR` search).
  e.g. `Hans Bo` will return `Hans Gruber`, `Bo Yang`

Examples:
* `find John` returns `john` and `John Doe`
* `find Alice Hoe` returns `John Doe`, `Alice Pauline`<br>
  ![result for 'find alice doe'](images/findAliceDoeResult.png)

### Deleting a person : `delete`

Deletes the specified person from the client list.

Format: `delete INDEX`

* Deletes the person at the specified `INDEX`.
* The index refers to the index number shown in the displayed person list.
* The index **must be a positive integer** 1, 2, 3, …​

Examples:
* `list` followed by `delete 2` deletes the 2nd person in the address book.
* `find Betsy` followed by `delete 1` deletes the 1st person in the results of the `find` command.

### Clearing all entries : `clear`

Clears all entries from you ClientNest.

Format: `clear`

### Exiting the program : `exit`

Exits the program.

Format: `exit`

### Saving the data

ClientNest data are saved in the hard disk automatically after any command that changes the data. There is no need to save manually.

### Editing the data file

ClientNest data are saved automatically as a JSON file `[JAR file location]/data/addressbook.json`. Advanced users are welcome to update data directly by editing that data file.

<box type="warning" seamless>

**Caution:**
If your changes to the data file makes its format invalid, ClientNest will discard all data and start with an empty data file at the next run.  Hence, it is recommended to take a backup of the file before editing it.<br>
Furthermore, certain edits can cause the ClientNest to behave in unexpected ways (e.g., if a value entered is outside the acceptable range). Therefore, edit the data file only if you are confident that you can update it correctly.
</box>

### Upcoming Birthdays View `[coming in v2.0]`

_Details coming soon ..._

### Editing User Profile : `profile`

Edits details of the current user's profile.

Format: `profile [n/NAME] [p/PHONE] [e/EMAIL]`

* Edits the current user's profile.
* At least one of the optional fields must be provided.
* Existing values will be updated to the input values.
* Edited values will be updated on the Hero Section of the main window.

Examples:
*  `edit n/John Doe p/91234567 e/johndoe@example.com` Edits the name, phone number and email address of the user to be `John Doe`, `91234567` and `johndoe@example.com` respectively.

### Saving the data

ClientNest user profile data is saved in the hard disk automatically after any command that changes the data. There is no need to save manually.

### Editing the data file

ClientNest user profile data are saved automatically as a JSON file `[JAR file location]/data/userprofile.json`. Advanced users are welcome to update data directly by editing that data file.

<box type="warning" seamless>

**Caution:**
If your changes to the data file makes its format invalid, ClientNest will discard all data and start with the default values for a user profile. Hence, it is recommended to take a backup of the file before editing it.<br><br>
The default values of a user profile is:<br>
Name: `Guest`<br>
Phone: `00000000`<br>
Email: `guest@example.com`<br>
<br>
Furthermore, certain edits can cause the ClientNest to behave in unexpected ways (e.g., if a value entered is outside the acceptable range). Therefore, edit the data file only if you are confident that you can update it correctly.
</box>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## FAQ

**Q**: How do I transfer my data to another Computer?<br>
**A**: Install the app in the other computer and overwrite the empty data file it creates with the file that contains the data of your previous ClientNest home folder.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Known issues

1. **When using multiple screens**, if you move the application to a secondary screen, and later switch to using only the primary screen, the GUI will open off-screen. The remedy is to delete the `preferences.json` file created by the application before running the application again.
2. **If you minimize the Help Window** and then run the `help` command (or use the `Help` menu, or the keyboard shortcut `F1`) again, the original Help Window will remain minimized, and no new Help Window will appear. The remedy is to manually restore the minimized Help Window.
3. **If the input string is too long**, the UI will truncate it and display an ellipsis.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Command summary

Action     | Format, Examples
-----------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
**Add**    | `add n/NAME p/PHONE_NUMBER e/EMAIL a/ADDRESS b/BIRTHDAY pr/PREMIUM_NAME PREMIUM_AMOUNT [t/TAG]…​` <br> e.g., `add n/James Ho p/22224444 e/jamesho@example.com a/123, Clementi Rd, 1234665 b/1995-05-10 pr/Platinum 150000 t/friend t/colleague`
**Clear**  | `clear`
**Delete** | `delete INDEX`<br> e.g., `delete 3`
**Edit**   | `edit INDEX [n/NAME] [p/PHONE_NUMBER] [e/EMAIL] [a/ADDRESS] [b/BIRTHDAY] [pr/PREMIUM_NAME PREMIUM_AMOUNT] [t/TAG]…​`<br> e.g.,`edit 2 n/James Lee e/jameslee@example.com`
**Find**   | `find KEYWORD [MORE_KEYWORDS]`<br> e.g., `find James Jake`
**List**   | `list`
**Help**   | `help`
